### 和式变换基础

首先基本函数有 $\mu,\varphi$。

??? "Euler Sieve"

    ```cpp
    bool isNotPrime[N];

    int prime[N], cnt, mu[N];

    long long phi[N];

    void EulerSieve()

    {

        mu[1]=1; phi[1]=1;

        for(int i=2; i<N; i++)

        {

            if(!isNotPrime[i])

            {

                prime[++cnt]=i;

                mu[i]=-1;

                phi[i]=i-1;

            }

            for(int j=1; j<=cnt&&prime[j]*i<N; j++)

            {

                isNotPrime[prime[j]*i]=true;

                if(i%prime[j]==0)

                {

                    mu[prime[j]*i]=0;

                    phi[prime[j]*i]=phi[i]*prime[j];

                    break;

                }

                mu[prime[j]*i]=-mu[i];

                phi[prime[j]*i]=phi[prime[j]]*phi[i];

            }

        }

        return;

    }
    ```

### instance

天梯赛 L3-3 可怜的简单题

式子推导不难，处理无穷求和是转化去一个等比数列。总之需要求的结果就是

$$
\sum\limits_{t=1}^{n}\mu(t) +n\sum\limits_{t=2}^{n}\frac{1}{\lfloor\frac{n}{t}\rfloor-n}\mu(t)
$$

### inference

Note that factor with $\lfloor\rfloor$ just has $O(\sqrt n)$ different values, divided into continous segments. So basically the difficulty lies in the prefix sum of $\mu$. 

!!! note "Practice"
    Prove that

    $$
    \sum\limits_{i=1}^{n} \mu(i) = 1 - \sum\limits_{t=2}^{n}\sum_{i=1}^{\lfloor n/t\rfloor}\mu(i)
    $$

??? tip "Step1"
    Actually the technique here is re-combine the $\mu$ s by different direction, in $\sum_{k=1}^{n} [k=1]$. 
    List $[k=1]$ s' $\mu$ s, row-ly. Column-ly combine them, to get
    $$
    1 = \sum\limits_{d=1}^{n}\mu(d)\lfloor\frac{n}{d}\rfloor
    $$

??? tip "Step2"
    proceed to transform the sum into prefix-like form, based on the index in the $\mu$. 

    By observing that $\{\lfloor \frac{n}{d}\rfloor:d=1,\cdots,n\}$ is a ladder-shaped stuff, which was just mentioned in above content. We can exhaustively to make them into prefix-like form. 

    Technically, the process can also be visualized as row-ly to column-ly. Just imagine $\mu(k)$ corresponds a row with length $\lfloor\frac{n}{k}\rfloor$.  The details and result will be clarified in the following step.

??? tip "Step3"
    Enumerate $t = 1,2,\cdots, n$, refers the position on the row of $\mu(1)$ (obviously the length is $n$), right now we're considering. The limit we can column-ly stretch, is the max $\boxed{X}$ which satisfies

    $$
    \lfloor\frac{n}{\boxed{X}}\rfloor \ge t
    $$

    The tricky technique here is that we can remove the $\lfloor\rfloor$ equivalently.

    Then the thing is easy  
    $$
    \frac{n}{t} \ge \boxed{X}
    $$
    So
    $$
    \boxed{X} = \lfloor\frac{n}{t}\rfloor
    $$

!!! example Division-Segmentation
    The principle of Division-Segmentation can be proved in the similar way in step3


So how to efficiently take advantage of the recursion-like formula? 
### algorithm

Denote that

$$
S_n := \sum\limits_{i=1}^{n} \mu(i)
$$
Calculate $n=1,\cdots,M$ in advance, do the recursion, then the time complexity should be

$$
O(M+\frac{N}{\sqrt{M}})
$$
So let $M = O(N^{2/3})$ to get $O(N^{2/3})$.

The details of the analysis can refer [杜教筛 - OI Wiki](https://oi-wiki.org/math/number-theory/du/#%E6%97%B6%E9%97%B4%E5%A4%8D%E6%9D%82%E5%BA%A6). The usage of memorization lies in the fact 

$$
\lfloor\frac{\lfloor\frac{n}{x}\rfloor}{y}\rfloor = \lfloor\frac{n}{xy}\rfloor
$$
swap $x,y$ vice versa. So the possible value we may visit is really limited, corresponding to the very divisor. 